###-------------Exercise Part 1: Understanding a Specific Feature

1. The main components involved in task creation/updates
cli.py, the file that direclty handles arguements passed in the terminal
task_manager.py, validates data and has functions that are responsible for creating and updating functionality. 
models.py, has a Task class that defines the structure of the task
storage.py, contains functions that interact with the json file where the tasks are stored

2. The execution flow when a task is created/updated

A command is typed using the interface handled by cli.py
The arguments are parsed to a function in task_manager.py
When a task is created: 
task_manager.py calls the function create_task().
The Task class from models.py creates a task with a new UUID.
storage.py uses TaskEncoder for the information to be in a dictionary
Storage.py stores the task in a JSON file by calling json.dump().
tasks.json is updated.
When a task is updated: 
task_manager.py calls the function update_task().
storage.py loads the JSON file where all tasks are stored and finds a matching UUID.
storage.py uses TaskEncoder for the information to be in a dictionary
Storage.py stored the task in a JSON file by calling json.dump().
tasks.json is updated.

3. How data is stored and retrieved

Data is stored in a JSON file called tasks.json.
Storage.py stores the task in a JSON file by calling json.dump().
storage.py loads the JSON file where all tasks are stored by calling json.load().

4. Any interesting design patterns you discovered
I don't really understand by "design patterns" what is meant or maybe I am overthinking it. 



##------------------Exercise Part 2: Deepen Understanding Through Guided Questions

1. Initial Understanding vs What was discovered

I viewed the program as a linear. A simple linear flow from cli.py to JSSON. 
I discovered "state management". The code doesn't only read or edit or write 1 line to change a single item.
The whole file is fully read, modified in memeory and fully written replacing the old file 

2. The key insights the guided questions helped you uncover
and any misconceptions you had that were clarified

The code doesn't only read or edit or write 1 line to change a single item.
The whole file is fully read, modified in memeory and fully written replacing the old file 

task_manager.py does the validation while the CLI just collects strings.
The input and the validation/rules makes the code more stable 

When a program runs for the first time, we don't assume the file already exists.
The program must check if it exits before it can read it otherwise it will crash
due to a FileNotFoundError. 

When a task is updated, the program must loop through the list one item at a time to find the matching ID 



##------------------Exercise Part 3: Mapping Data flow

1. The flow of data 
Terminal (user provides raw strings)--> 
cli.py (strings are turned into a structured python object) --> 
models.py (a Task object is created with a unique UUID)--> 
task_manager.py (object is passed to a list)-->
 storage.py (object is convereted into a dictionary and written as a JSON string)

2. The state changes that occur during task completion
When the task status changes to done, the program doesn't just change one word in the file
it takes the entire updated list from memory and replaces the old file content with the new state.

3. Potential points of failure in this process
If the tasks.json is manually updated, the next json.load() will fail.
If the UUID is an incorrect string, a match won't be found resulting in an error. 

4. How the application persists these changes
Flat-File Persistence via the json module.
It reads the entire file into a Python list, 
all changes happen to that list in the computer's temporary memory and
every time a change is made the program stops everything to save the current list to tasks.json.